Guide to Pseudo-Elements (::) and Pseudo-Classes (:) in CSS
In CSS, pseudo-elements and pseudo-classes are used to style specific parts of elements or apply styles based on certain conditions.

🔹 Pseudo-Classes (:) → Represents an Element's State
🔸 Pseudo-classes start with a single colon (:) and are used to apply styles based on the state of an element.

📌 Example of Pseudo-Classes:

        button:hover {
          background-color: blue;
        }
Explanation:

    :hover applies styles when the user hovers over the button.
It does not create a new element; it just modifies an existing element based on its state.
📌 Common Pseudo-Classes:

Pseudo-Class	Description
    :hover	When the user hovers over an element.
    :focus	When an input field is selected.
    :nth-child(n)	Targets the nth child of a parent.
    :first-child	Targets the first child of a parent.
    :last-child	Targets the last child of a parent.
    :checked	When a checkbox is checked.
✅ Example Usage:


        input:focus {
          border: 2px solid red;
        }
👉 This will add a red border when the user clicks inside the input field.

🔹 Pseudo-Elements (::) → Targets Part of an Element
🔸 Pseudo-elements start with two colons (::) and are used to style specific parts of an element.

📌 Example of Pseudo-Elements:


        p::first-letter {
          font-size: 2rem;
          color: red;
        }
Explanation:

    ::first-letter only affects the first letter of a <p> element.
    This is useful for creating stylized text effects.

📌 Common Pseudo-Elements:

Pseudo-Element	Description
    ::before	Inserts content before an element.
    ::after	Inserts content after an element.
    ::first-letter	Styles the first letter of text.
    ::first-line	Styles the first line of text.
    ::selection	Styles the part of text selected by the user.
✅ Example Usage:


    h1::before {
      content: "🔥 ";
    }
👉 This will add a fire emoji before every <h1> heading.

✅ Another Example (::after)


        button::after {
          content: " ✔";
          color: green;
        }
👉 This will add a green checkmark after every button.

🎯 Key Differences Between Pseudo-Classes and Pseudo-Elements

Feature	               Pseudo-Class (:)	      Pseudo-Element (::)
Number of colons	    : (one colon)	        :: (two colons)
What it modifies	   State of an element	   Part of an element
Example	                  :hover, :focus	     ::before, ::after
Effect	               Changes behavior        Adds new visual content
                        based on state	

Conclusion
    Use pseudo-classes (:) when styling an element based on user interaction (like :hover or :focus).
    Use pseudo-elements (::) when modifying a part of an element (like ::before or ::after).
